               The Making of Leisure Suit Larry 5


In comparison to the process of creating today's light-and-sound

extravaganzas, putting together an adventure game 8 years ago was

simple.  A couple of programmers, doubling as game designers and

artists, could put a game together in just a few months.  Back then,

games were smaller, graphics were cruder and less colorful, and the

music wasn't much more than a collection of irritating beeps and

clicks.  Nowadays, with sophisticated digitized VGA graphics, music

support for a long list of sound cards, and increasingly complex game

designs, bringing a computer game to life has become a full-scale

operation involving dozens of artists, programmers, musicians and

writers.  Experts agree that if Al Lowe were to have designed, drawn

and programmed "Leisure Suit Larry 5" by himself, it would have taken

him over 300 years...more than 6 times the average life expectancy of

an entertainment software designer!



As Production Designer, Andy Hoyos set the look and feel for LSL5's

ambitious graphic design.  The same jazzy, contemporary look

(developed originally by Bill Skirvin, veteran of many of Larry's

adventures) that worked so well for the VGA upgrade of the original

"Leisure Suit Larry in the Land of the Lounge Lizards" was deemed just

as appropriate for Larry's latest adventure. 



Art Team Manager Cheryl Loyd (who's currently starring in "Police

Quest III: The Kindred" as Sonny Bonds's wife Marie) and Art Designer

Jane Cardinal created many of the backgrounds and animation loops,

refining the broad artistic style.  The challenge was to give the

game its own unique flavor, while maintaining the overall appearance

established in the "Land of the Lounge Lizards."  Barry Smith and

Roger Hardy (a old hand from Larry 3) added their talents on the

animation side, adding dozens of little touches that gave a lot of

character to just a few little pixels.  All told, nearly two dozen

artists contributed to LSL5.



Lead Programmer Brian Hughes (of "Space Quest IV" and "Quest for Glory

II" fame) and his able-bodied assistant Carlos Escobar spent over six

months coding the game, working weekends, nights, and even during

Rosh Hashanah.  As is the case with most programming and art teams,

they try to outdo each other to make the game as "solid" as humanly

possible.  With LSL5, they outdid themselves.  Al Lowe was even heard

to say, "You could drive a truck through this code!"  Must be some

pretty rock-solid programming to stand up to that kind of torture. 

Yeoman duty on the programming side was handled by Oliver Brelsford,

Steve Conrad and John Hartin.




For the music of LSL5, Al Lowe and Mark Seibert (Sierra's

multitalented Music Director, who can be heard making announcements

over the airport's PA system) looked west to Hollywood.  Craig Safan,

a composer whose credits include the films "Stand and Deliver," "The

Last Starfighter" and the television shows "Life Goes On," "Cheers,"

"Hitchcock Presents" and "Amazing Stories,"  was signed to compose a

series of original themes for the game.  That Craig was willing to

forego the usual fame that accompanies Hollywood productions so that

he could contribute to Leisure Suit Larry is a testament to the

popularity of the series.



Chris Brayman, who created the hilarious music throughout the revamped

Leisure Suit Larry 1, also contributed substantial musical material

to LSL5.  His compositions (and Craig's) can best be heard by using

the boom box in the Tape room at PornProdCorp.



And would this summary of LSL5's VIPs be complete without a mention of

Al Lowe? No, so here it is: Al Lowe.
